---
aliases: [Hover]
title: Hover
tags: Feat, Monster_Feat, General_Feat
---
### Hover 
***Feat Type: General***

**Prerequisite:** Fly speed.

**Benefit:** When flying, the creature can halt its forward motion and
hover in place as a move action. It can then fly in any direction,
including straight down or straight up, at half speed, regardless of its
maneuverability.

If a creature begins its turn hovering, it can hover in place for the
turn and take a full-round action. A hovering creature cannot make wing
attacks, but it can attack with all other limbs and appendages it could
use in a full attack. The creature can instead use a breath weapon or
cast a spell instead of making physical attacks, if it could normally do
so.

If a creature of Large size or larger hovers within 20 feet of the
ground in an area with lots of loose debris, the draft from its wings
creates a hemispherical cloud with a radius of 60 feet. The winds so
generated can snuff torches, small campfires, exposed lanterns, and
other small, open flames of non-magical origin. Clear vision within the
cloud is limited to 10 feet. Creatures have concealment at 15 to 20 feet
(20% miss chance). At 25 feet or more, creatures have total concealment
(50% miss chance, and opponents cannot use sight to locate the
creature).

Those caught in the cloud must succeed on a Concentration check (DC 10 +
1/2 creature's HD) to cast a spell.

**Normal:** Without this feat, a creature must keep moving while flying
unless it has perfect maneuverability.


Source :

---

This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under
the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
